# SNHU-Capstone

## Overview
This Portfolio shows my professional growth throughout my time at SNHU. The projects focus on 3 major aspects of Software Engineering. These categories are, software engineering and design, algorithms and data structures, and databases. Each is integral in being able to create comprehensive systems that meet user or stakeholders’ needs. To show my growth in software engineering and design, I identified errors, and enhanced my CS-360 final project which was an Inventory Management App. For algorithms and data structures I chose to enhance my IT-145 Grazioso Salvare Pet Management System. Lastly for databases I chose to enhance my Animal Database and Dashboard.

## Course Outcomes
The following are the 5 course outcomes. Through the development and finalization of the various enhancements I was able to meet all 5 of them.

1. Employ strategies for building collaborative environments that enable diverse audiences to support organizational decision-making in the field of computer science.  
2. Design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts.  
3. Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices.  
4. Demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals.
5. Develop a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources.

### Which Course Outcomes Does Each Enhancement Meet?
#### Enhancement One: Inventory Management Application
The course outcomes that pertain to Enhancement One are outcomes 2, 3, 4, and 5. The project focuses on anticipating potential users' needs by providing useful features they might want. The updated application also now uses a separate validation class that checks the users’ input and ensures that it is safe before passing it into the system. Furthermore, the system uses the input validation to ensure that data is properly configured before the query is sent to the database. If it is not, then the system will not allow the user to continue until it is corrected. An example of this is when the user leaves a field empty in the login or sign-up page, but also if the user leaves any of the item fields empty when adding or updating it. Finally the project was created using Android Studio and Java which provides many features that focus on scalability and even the option to launch the application on the Google Play Store.

### Enhancement Two: Grazioso Salvare Pet Management System
Course outcomes 3, 4, and 5. The system uses different algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution to create a system that adequately meets all of the clients’ needs while managing the tradeoffs that are involved in design choices. The project also demonstrates my ability to use the unique features of Java to deliver value to the system. These two outcomes are show through the re-design of the class structure to better reflect proper inheritance and scalability. The migration from an array list to a hash map is also important for adding value to the system. When a system only has a few items there will be little to no difference between using an array list and using a HashMap, but when looking at potentially having hundreds of items, the HashMap will offer faster retrieval. Lastly it helps develop a security mindset because the system anticipates potentially invalid inputs through the addition of try-catch blocks.

### Enhancement Three: Animal Database and Dashboard
Course outcomes that pertain to this enhancement are 1, 2, 3, and 4. It aligns with the first outcome because the dashboard is one that would be used by various users at a time. This means that the system needs to be able to manage a large number of users at any time. The second outcome is to create professional communications for specific audiences. The project consists of a README file that was created to allow users and stakeholders to install the system on their Windows system. Outcomes three and four pertain to this project because it uses different systems to function so ensuring that they all work together is important. Managing the different limitations of each system is important when working with different systems.
